# Homework 08

For this homework, you will build upon your Homework 07. In fact, you will show
with a few modifications, the code you wrote for Homework 07 can be used to
in a different context for a complex program. 

## Provided Code and Files
* [doc_view.py](../src/doc_view.py) - Provided as is, no need to edit. This is a console view that was the default in Homework07
* [word_lib.py](../src/word_lib.py) - Use your Homework 07 word_lib. We won't be testing this file, so if your word_lib is not working correctly, you will be fine using the 'dummy' (incorrect) version provided.
* [doc_stats_builder.py](../src/doc_stats_builder.py) - Use your Homework 07 doc_stats_builder.  We won't be testing this file, so if your doc_stats_builder is not working correctly, you will be fine using the 'dummy' (incorrect) version provided.
* [doc_stats.py](../src/doc_stats.py) - The main 'driver' for the program. You will modify this file to handle command line arguments in addition to the previous capabilities. Based on the arguments, your program functionality will change from dealing with command line input to reading and writing files. 
* [doc_file_view.py](../src/doc_file_view.py) - Contains functions to help with file reading and writing. While not truly a unique 'view', presented this way to help students see different entry and exit points for their application. 

### Test Files
We have also provided a couple text files to help test your program with. You should also probably create your own files. 

* [haiku.txt](../data/haiku.txt) - A haiku poem
* [auto_generated.txt](../data/auto_generated.txt) - A file generated by chatGPT.

## Part 1: doc_file_view.py

This file has three functions for you to implement. It is highly suggested you implement and test every function, even though two of them involve reading and writing to files! 

One additional concept to know, but not required to understand in depth is JSON format. JSON is a way to store data in a string (and thus a text file). It is a very common format used online for transferring of data between websites and servers. JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation. Javascript is a programming language that is used in web browsers, while python is commonly used at the server level. For example, a python program running Flask or Django may process some data, and then 'serve' that data to a website via JSON string. The web application will then use Javascript to parse that data and display it to the user using HTML. You can learn more about JSON (but don't worry about it for this homework!) [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Objects/JSON).

For this homework, what you need to understand is that `stats_to_json` takes a `tuple` and converts the values to a formatted string of the format:


```
{"lines": 1, "words": 2, "vowels": 3, "palindromes": 4, "sentence_palindromes": 5}
```
With 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 - being the values of the tuple (so the parts that change). 

> [!CAUTION]
> You should NOT be using the built in json library or dictionaries (which the json library prefers to work with) to accomplish this, or your code will break when we pass in a tuple. 

### Testing Reading and Writing Files
To test functions that read and write files, you need sample files to read and write. As such, for your tests, you should create a 'solution' file, and then see if your code writes out the same. For example, we can do the following:

```sample_solution.txt
{"lines": 1, "words": 2, "vowels": 3, "palindromes": 4, "sentence_palindromes": 5}
```

Then in our test, we do the following 

```python
write_json_file((1,2,3,4,5), "my_sample_test.txt")
```

We then compare the differences between sample_solution.txt and my_sample_test.txt. You can do this visually.

> [!TIP]  
> `diff` is a command you have on the command line to compare to two files.
> The usage is as follows: `diff file1 file2` in mac and linux or `diff (cat file1) (cat file2)` in windows. You can also use [online diff tools](https://www.diffchecker.com/). 

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> For grading purposes, we need to see some sample files you created, and the output of your tests. You can store your sample files in the data directory.


# Part 2: doc_stats.py

In doc_stats, you will be looking at command line arguments modifying how your program runs. For example:

```bash
python doc_stats.py
```
Will do the typical run you saw in Homework 07 asking for client input, and printing out to the terminal. 

```bash
python doc_stats.py -f haiku.txt
```
Will run your program, but instead of reading from the command line, it will read from the file haiku.txt. 


```bash
python doc_stats.py -f haiku.txt -o haiku_stats.txt
```
Will run your program, but instead of reading from the command line, it will read from the file haiku.txt, and write the output to haiku_stats.txt. 

```bash
python doc_stats.py -h
```
Will print out a help message (and is already completed for you).

Your job is to handle the `-f filename` and `-o filename` arguments, along with updating
the main to change how the program flows based on list of strings passed into main. MAKE SURE to look at the weekly team activity provided code!

### Testing
As this is a console application, you can test it by running it with various command line arguments.  You can also add tests by calling functions directly, as for most of them the output is the same given a set of inputs as most are just returning bools and strings!  If you want to use doctest, make sure to add the Examples section to the docstrings, and document that you ran doctest. 


## Report.md and README.md

:fire: **Task**: Answer the questions in the [Report.md](../Report.md) and [README.md](../README.md) files.

As always you are free to ask about the questions in MS Teams, including clarifications on the code.

## Coding Practice
Looking at the coding [practice problems](https://github.com/CS5001-khoury/Resources/blob/main/PracticeProblems.md) in the class resources, you should ideally do a few
others on your own to get more practice coding.  However, you need to submit at least ONE (1)
completed practice as its own python file (which means even if the coding practice had an online
form to fill out like codingbat, you need to copy your solution to a python file).
 

## 📝 Grading Rubric

For this assignment, you will submit:
* word_lib.py
* doc_stats_builder.py
* README.md
* REPORT.md
* doc_view.py
* doc_stats.py
* doc_file_view.py
* Any test files you created including output captured from running the tests and your final program run.
  * Basically, you are proving you tested it, and it works as expected! :) 

You will need to submit your homework 07 files or the dummy files we provided. We won't be testing them, but for python linking purposes, we need them there to run your code. Arguably, just submitting your repo will do this.

While we provide tests, reminder, you should test your own code before submitting!

1. Learning (AG)
   * stats_to_json works with a variety of tuples
   * get_input_file returns the proper filename
   * write_json_to_file works with a variety of tuples
   * read_file with a standard file of a few lines, no spaces, no skipped lines
   * get_output_file returns the proper filename 
2. Approaching  (AG)
   * get_input_file raises an exception if the file isn't listed
   * read_file works on an empty file
   * read_file works on a file with spaces and skipped lines
   * get_output_file returns the proper filename when not specified (out.txt)
   * passes style checker
3. Meets  (MG)
   * README.md questions answered
   * Proper comments and docstrings throughout code
   * REPORT.md questions answered correctly
4. Exceeds  (MG)
   * Test files provided / evidence of testing and running the program
   * main is implemented properly to execute the program
   * Deeper thinking question answered
  

AG - Auto-graded  
MG - Manually graded



### Submission Reminder 🚨
For manually graded elements, we only guarantee time to submit for a regrade IF you submit by the DUE DATE. Submitting late may mean it isn't possible for the MG to be graded before the AVAILABLE BY DATE, removing any windows for your to resubmit in time. While it will be graded, it is always best to submit by the due date, so you have full opportunity to improve your grade.

## 📚 Resources
  
* [Real Python Read/Write Files](https://realpython.com/read-write-files-python/)
* [Free Code Camp Reading Python Files](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-read-files-in-python/)
* [Using with to read/write files](https://www.statology.org/with-open-python/)